# SECSWATH_PeptideCentricAnalysis
# A cross-platform, docker-based solution to perform peptide-centric analysis of SEC-SWATH-MS datasets.

# Input
The inputs are
(i) SWATH-MS LC-MS data (.mzXML or .mzML) acquired from tryptic digests of size exclusion chromatographic fractions of mild human proteome extracts, containing information on protein co-elution as part of differently sized complexes (and -variants).<br>
(ii) A library of peptide query parameters (i.e. Spectral or Assay library), such as the Combined Human Assay Library (CAL, Rosenberger et al. 2014)

# Processing
Step 1) Preparation: Obtain and spawn OpenSwath docker container; obtain Peptide Query Parameter Library; create analysis folder framework. <br>
Step 2) OPENSWATH analysis: Convert library and query it in both the unfractionated sample(s)' and the SEC-fractionated sample' SWATH-MS data using the OpenSwathWorkflow command.<br>
Step 3) PYPROPHET analysis: Train global score function on .osw results from the unfractionated sample and then apply it to consistently score the peak groups along all fractions' .osw results. Convert results to .tsv. <br> 
NOTE: The .osw results per fraction are merged into one allruns.osw file, in contrast to separate processing.<br>
Step 4) TRIC Alignment: Align peak groups across all SEC fractions nonlinearly (TRIC, Roest et al. 2016) while loosely controlling the error rate on peak group level (Strict control: within CCprofiler, using chromatographic information).<br>

# Output
The outputs of the OpenSwath pipeline is the scored and aligned peptide precursor intensities across the chromatographic fractions, with metainformation on each detected fragment ion peak group (feature_alignment.tsv).<br>
This is the input for the CCprofiler analysis that will extract information on individual protein's elution peaks and (differential) protein complex association state (protein-centric) and information on the observability of expectable protein-protein complexes (complex-centric analysis).

# References:
Gillet, L.C., Navarro, P., Tate, S., Röst, H., Selevsek, N., Reiter, L., Bonner, R., and Aebersold, R. (2012). Targeted data extraction of the MS/MS spectra generated by data-independent acquisition: a new concept for consistent and accurate proteome analysis. Mol. Cell. Proteomics 11, O111.016717.

Röst, H.L., Rosenberger, G., Navarro, P., Gillet, L., Miladinović, S.M., Schubert, O.T., Wolski, W., Collins, B.C., Malmström, J., Malmström, L., et al. (2014). OpenSWATH enables automated, targeted analysis of data-independent acquisition MS data. Nat. Biotechnol. 32, 219–223.

Rosenberger, G., Koh, C.C., Guo, T., Röst, H.L., Kouvonen, P., Collins, B.C., Heusel, M., Liu, Y., Caron, E., Vichalkovski, A., et al. (2014). A repository of assays to quantify 10,000 human proteins by SWATH-MS. Sci. Data 1, 140031.

Röst, H.L., Liu, Y., D’Agostino, G., Zanella, M., Navarro, P., Rosenberger, G., Collins, B.C., Gillet, L., Testa, G., Malmström, L., et al. (2016). TRIC: an automated alignment strategy for reproducible protein quantification in targeted proteomics. Nat. Methods 13, 777–783.
